---
layout: post
title:  "My Fascination With Web Development"
---

It is hopefully no secret that I am pursuing a career in back-end development, so why do I have so many web development projects? My portfolio website was a web development project, I made the clicker game on the site, I am currently working on a web-based dungeon crawler game, and even this blog is a web project. I have been fascinated by web development for almost the past year. This is because web development has a lot of resources that make it easy to learn, I think all good engineers should understand front-end development, and the web plays a very big part in our lives.

The first reason for my recent fascination is that I believe all engineers should understand front-end development. A big part of designing a backend is how it interracts with the front-end in some cases, limitations of the front-end might change how the back-end can be organized. For example, making when plot a graph in Python with matplotlib it takes a list of data. For efficiency, it would be best to design the rest of the code to manipulate that data in a list or a data structure that can be easily converted to a list. This is a very simple example, and there are certainly more complicated cases where large programs can be designed in a way that makes the user interface difficult to develop. If every back-end developer had front-end experience, they might be able to better understand how the UI should interract with the back-end.

The next reason is that there is so much to learn about web development, and a lot of resources make that really easy. There's so many JavaScript frameworks, there are constantly new tools being developed like Bootstrap that make design easier, and there is even a new web language called Web Assembly that might change the way we code websites. CSS - the language used to add color and design to sites - is a complicated tool on its own. There are insane amounts of different ways to do one thing. Putting two things side by side while keeping it mobile friendly can be done with media queries, a CSS grid, or with Bootstrap. With recent updates, HTML and CSS are turing complete which only adds to the appeal. There are so many resources for learning web development. More so than I have found for any other language.

There are probably so many resources because of how big of a part the web plays on our lives. Not only are some very big platforms like Facebook and Twitter based on the web, but portability of web applications is enticing developers to make web apps instead of mobile or desktop applications. A well designed web app can be used on any device that has a browser with very small issues. The only limitation I have found is screen size 